User
Hey, I'm working with GitHub. How can I make a commit in GitHub? I forgot.

ChatGPT
Sure, I can help with that! Here is a basic process for making a commit on GitHub.

First, you need to navigate to the repository on your local machine. You can do this using the command line by changing directories. For example:

bash
Copy code
cd /path/to/your/repository
Once you're in the repository's directory, you can start the commit process. Here are the basic steps:

Stage your changes: In git, changes are not automatically added to your next commit. You have to stage the changes you want to include. You can do this with the git add command.

To stage all changes, you can do:

bash
Copy code
git add .
Or, if you want to add only specific files, you can do:

bash
Copy code
git add file1 file2
Replace file1 file2 with the names of the files you want to stage.

Commit your changes: Once your changes are staged, you can commit them. This is done with the git commit command. You should include a message with your commit that describes the changes you've made. Here's how to do it:

bash
Copy code
git commit -m "Your commit message here"
Replace "Your commit message here" with your actual commit message.

Push your changes: Now that your changes are committed, you can push them to GitHub. This is done with the git push command. If you're on the default branch (usually main or master), you can do:

bash
Copy code
git push origin main
Replace main with the name of the branch you're working on if it's different.

And that's it! Your changes should now be on GitHub. Remember, these commands should be entered into the command line of your local machine, not on the GitHub website. You can open a command line window with the Terminal application on macOS, Command Prompt or Powershell on Windows, or a terminal emulator on Linux.




User
Well actually I wanted to avoid using Git so I did changes directly in the web page. On another topic, I need to create a SQL Server instance inside an azure sandbox. Do you know how to do that?
ChatGPT
Yes, you can create a SQL Server instance in Azure without needing to set up any infrastructure on your own using Azure SQL Database. Here's a general process for creating one using the Azure portal:

Please note: Azure Sandbox provides limited services and capabilities. Azure SQL Database may not be available in the Azure Sandbox environment. These steps are generally applicable in a full-fledged Azure environment.

Log into the Azure portal: Go to https://portal.azure.com and sign in with your Azure account.

Create a new SQL Database: In the left-hand menu, click on "Create a resource." In the "New" window, search for "SQL Database" and select it from the list of results. Then click "Create" to start the process.

Configure your database: You will now be in the "Create SQL Database" screen. Here, you will need to fill out several fields:

Subscription: Choose the Azure subscription you want to use for this database.
Resource group: Choose an existing resource group or create a new one.
Database name: Choose a name for your database.
Server: Click "Create new" to create a new server. You will need to fill out a form with the server's name, the server admin login, password, and location.
Want to use SQL elastic pool?: Choose whether or not you want to use an SQL elastic pool. If you're not sure, select "No".
Compute + storage: Click on "Configure database" and choose your desired configuration.
Create the database: Once you have configured your database, click "Next" at the bottom of the screen. You will go through the "Networking", "Advanced data security", and "Additional settings" sections. Fill in any necessary information (the defaults are fine for a simple setup), and then click "Review + create." If everything looks good, click "Create" to create the database.

Connection information: Once the database is created, you can find connection information like the server name and fully qualified domain name in the overview section of the database in Azure portal.

Please note that Azure services incur costs. Make sure to clean up any resources you no longer need to avoid unexpected charges.

This is a basic setup and doesn't cover every option you can set. Depending on what you're trying to do, you might need to adjust these steps. For instance, you might need to set up a firewall rule to allow your client's IP to access the SQL server.




User
I see two offering in the azure portal: "SQL server (logical server)" and "SQL Database" (the one that you mention) Which is the difference between both?
ChatGPT
Azure offers different services for different needs, and each one has different features and use cases. Here's the difference between "SQL Server (logical server)" and "SQL Database":

Azure SQL Server (Logical Server): This is a logical container for your databases. When you create an Azure SQL Server, you're creating a server that will contain your databases - but it doesn't create any actual databases. You can think of it like a physical server that can host multiple databases. You need to create this first before creating Azure SQL Databases. It provides a central administrative point for multiple databases, and you only need to configure firewall rules and server-level settings once.

Azure SQL Database: This is a "Database as a Service" offering from Microsoft. It's a fully managed relational cloud database that provides SQL Server database capabilities. This service does not require a physical machine or a virtual machine. The Azure platform handles all the database management functions like upgrading, patching, backups, and monitoring. The Azure SQL Database is hosted by the Azure SQL Server (logical server) and you can host multiple databases on a single Azure SQL Server.

In other words, when you create an Azure SQL Database, it must be associated with an Azure SQL Server (logical server). This does not have to be a one-to-one relationship, though - you can have multiple databases on one logical server.

So, if you want to host a database on Azure, you would first create a SQL Server (logical server) and then within that, you would create your SQL Database.




User
I'm creating the instance now. How does the Azure Active Directory authentication work? Not sure if I should use it instead of SQL authentication.
ChatGPT
Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) authentication is a mechanism of connecting to an Azure SQL Database, Azure SQL Managed Instance, and Azure Synapse Analytics by using identities in Azure AD.

With Azure AD authentication, you can manage the identities of database users and other Microsoft services in one central location. It provides an alternative to SQL Server authentication.

Here are a few benefits of Azure AD authentication:

Central Identity Management: Azure AD provides a central place for your identities. This is especially beneficial if you're dealing with multiple databases or applications.

Integrated with Microsoft Services: Azure AD is integrated with other Microsoft cloud services like Office 365 and it's also a central part of Azure access management. If you're using these services, it might be easier to use Azure AD.

Supports Multi-Factor Authentication: Azure AD supports multi-factor authentication to enhance security.

Password Rotation Policies: Azure AD supports password rotation policies.

On the other hand, SQL Server Authentication might be simpler if you have a standalone app and don't want to integrate with Azure AD.

How to use Azure AD for authentication:

When you create the SQL Server instance, you can set the Active Directory admin to an existing user in your Azure AD.
After that, this user will be able to log in to the SQL Server using their Azure AD credentials.
Please note that this only applies to the server admin account. If you want other users to be able to use Azure AD authentication, you will need to configure this in your SQL Server instance (you can do this using Transact-SQL commands).

And remember, you can always change your authentication method after your SQL Server has been created if your needs change.




User
ok the instance is up and I could connect to it. Using SSMS 19.1, how could I Import a database?
ChatGPT
Here's how you can import a database using SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS):

Please note: SQL Azure doesn't support the "Import Data-tier Application" feature directly from SSMS, which is often used for on-premise SQL Server. Instead, you'll have to create a BACPAC file and then import that into Azure.

Create a BACPAC file from the source database:

You can do this using SSMS in your source SQL Server by right clicking on the database you want to export -> Tasks -> Export Data-tier Application -> Save the .bacpac file to disk.

Import BACPAC file to Azure SQL Database:

Navigate to your Azure SQL Database in Azure portal. On the toolbar, click on "Import BACPAC".

You will need to provide the following information:

Storage: Specify the Azure Blob Storage account where the BACPAC file is located. If your BACPAC file is local, you'll need to upload it to a Blob Storage account.
BACPAC file: Select your BACPAC file from the list of available BACPAC files in the Blob Storage account.
Database name: Specify the name for the new database.
Pricing tier: Specify the pricing tier for the database.
Server: Specify the server that hosts the database.
After filling out the form, click "OK" to start the import process.

Monitor the Import:

You can monitor the progress of the import on the Azure portal. On the SQL databases page, the status of the import operation is displayed in the Status column. If the import fails, you can click on the database to open the database page and view the error message.

Please remember that importing large databases may take some time, and you will need enough storage space to accommodate the new database in your Azure SQL server.

Lastly, this assumes that you have already created a server in Azure SQL Database and that you have the necessary permissions to access the server and perform operations on it.




User

2 / 2

I was importing the database but I got the following error:
Import operation for WideWorldImportersDW-Standard failed.
ErrorCode: RequestDisallowedByPolicy
ErrorMessage: Resource 'WideWorldImportersDW-Standard' was disallowed by policy. Policy identifiers: '[{"policyAssignment":{"name":"allowed-sql-dbs","id":"/providers/Microsoft.Management/managementGroups/vadergen2labs/providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policyAssignments/allowed-sql-dbs"},"policyDefinition":{"name":"allowed-sql-dbs","id":"/providers/Microsoft.Management/managementGroups/vadergen2labs/providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policyDefinitions/allowed-sql-dbs"}}]'.
Can you help debugging?
ChatGPT
It appears that the Azure resource creation has been disallowed by a policy. Azure Policy is a service in Azure that you use to create, assign, and manage policies. These policies enforce different rules and effects over your resources, so those resources stay compliant with your corporate standards and service level agreements.

In your case, a policy named "allowed-sql-dbs" seems to be preventing the creation of the SQL database you're trying to import. This could be because the database configuration doesn't comply with the rules set out in the policy.

Here are a few steps you can take to resolve this issue:

Review the Policy: The first thing you should do is review the "allowed-sql-dbs" policy. This should tell you what's allowed and what isn't. You can do this by going to Azure Policy in the Azure portal and searching for the policy by its name. You may need the help of your Azure administrator if you do not have access to view policies.

Adjust the Configuration: If your database configuration doesn't meet the policy rules, you should adjust it so that it does. This might involve changing the pricing tier, the server, or some other parameter.

Adjust the Policy: If your database configuration is correct and the policy is too restrictive, you might need to adjust the policy. This should be done with caution and in consultation with whoever is responsible for Azure governance in your organization.

Request an Exemption: If your database must have its current configuration and the policy cannot be changed, you could request an exemption from the policy for your database. Again, this should be done in consultation with whoever is responsible for Azure governance in your organization.

Remember, any changes to Azure policies can have wide-ranging effects, so they should be done carefully and thoughtfully. If you're unsure about any of these steps, you should get in touch with your Azure administrator or IT department.




User
which types of Service Objective does Azure SQL have?
ChatGPT
Azure SQL Database offers different service tiers that you can choose from to balance out your performance needs with your costs. As of my knowledge cutoff in September 2021, Azure SQL Database has the following service tiers:

General Purpose/Standard Tier: This tier is designed for common workloads. It offers budget-oriented, balanced, and scalable compute and storage options.

Business Critical/Premium Tier: This tier is designed for OLTP applications with high transaction rate, low I/O latency, and business applications that require the highest level of resilience to failures. It uses local SSD storage and provides the highest resilience to failures by using several isolated replicas.

Hyperscale Service Tier: This service tier is for very large OLTP and analytical workloads. Hyperscale supports up to 100 TB of data and provides rapid scale out by adding additional nodes, and scale up compute power.

Basic Tier: This tier is designed for light workloads with infrequent, simple transactions and it's a cost-effective option for developing and testing applications.

Each service tier supports different performance levels, usually described as "Database Transaction Units" or DTUs for single databases, or "Elastic Database Transaction Units" or eDTUs for elastic pools. A DTU represents a blended measure of CPU, memory, and I/O resources.

For each tier, you can choose the specific performance level (number of DTUs/eDTUs or vCores for vCore-based purchasing model) and storage size you want, to match the needs of your workload.

Please note that available service tiers and specifics may have changed after my training data in September 2021, so it's always good to check the latest documentation or Azure portal for the most accurate information.